Complete rewrite of ASP.NET Core -> B2C article (#22827)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/azure-ad-b2c.md

uid: security/authentication/azure-ad-b2c
---
# Cloud authentication with Azure Active Directory B2C in ASP.NET Core

[Azure Active Directory B2C](/azure/active-directory-b2c/active-directory-b2c-overview) (Azure AD B2C) is a cloud identity management solution for web and mobile apps. The service provides authentication for apps hosted in the cloud and on-premises. Authentication types include individual accounts, social network accounts, and federated enterprise accounts. Additionally, Azure AD B2C can provide multi-factor authentication with minimal configuration.

> [!TIP]
> Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) and Azure AD B2C are separate product offerings. An Azure AD tenant generally represents an organization, while an Azure AD B2C tenant represents a collection of identities to be used with relying party applications. To learn more, see [Azure AD B2C: Frequently asked questions (FAQ)](/azure/active-directory-b2c/active-directory-b2c-faqs).

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to configure an ASP.NET Core app for authentication with Azure AD B2C.

## Prerequisites

> The following are required for this walkthrough:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/dotnet).
- .NET 5.0 SDK or later. [Install the latest .NET 5.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/5.0) for your platform.

## Preparation

1. [Create an Azure Active Directory B2C tenant](/azure/active-directory-b2c/tutorial-create-tenant).
1. Create a new ASP.NET Core Razor pages app:
    
    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet new razor -o azure-ad-b2c
    ```
    
    The previous command creates a Razor pages app in a directory named *azure-ad-b2c*. 
    
    > [!TIP]
    > You may prefer to [use Visual Studio to create your app](/visualstudio/ide/quickstart-aspnet-core).

> 1. [Create a web app registration in the tenant](/azure/active-directory-b2c/tutorial-register-applications#register-a-web-application). For **Redirect URI**, use `https://localhost:5001/signin-oidc`, replacing the `5001` port with the port used by your app (if applicable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create a web app registration in the tenant](/azure/active-directory-b2c/tutorial-register-applications#register-a-web-application). For **Redirect URI**, use `https://localhost:5001/signin-oidc`.  Replace `5001` with the port used by your app when using Visual Studio generated ports.
```

 
## Modify the app

> 1. From inside the project directory, add the `Microsoft.Identity.Web` and `Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI` packages to the project. If you're using Visual Studio, you can use [NuGet Package Manager](/nuget/consume-packages/install-use-packages-visual-studio).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the `Microsoft.Identity.Web` and `Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI` packages to the project. If you're using Visual Studio, you can use [NuGet Package Manager](/nuget/consume-packages/install-use-packages-visual-studio).
```

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Identity.Web --version 1.4.0 
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI --version 1.4.0
    ```
    
    In the preceding:

    - `Microsoft.Identity.Web` includes the basic set of dependencies for authenticating with the Microsoft Identity platform.
    - `Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI` includes UI functionality encapsulated in an area named `MicrosoftIdentity`.

1. Add an `AzureAd` object to *appsettings.json*.

>     :::code language="javascript" source="azure-ad-b2c/sample/appsettings.json" highlight="2-8":::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :::code language="json" source="azure-ad-b2c/sample/appsettings.json" highlight="2-8":::
```

    - For **Domain**, use the domain of your Azure AD B2C tenant.
    - For **ClientId**, use the **Application (client) ID** from the app registration you created in your tenant.
    - Leave all other values as they are.
    
1. In *Views/Shared*, create a file named *_LoginPartial.cshtml*. Include the following code:

    :::code language="razor" source="azure-ad-b2c/sample/Pages/Shared/_LoginPartial.cshtml":::    

    In the preceding code:

    - The partial view checks if the user is authenticated.

>     - Renders a "Sign out" or "Sign in" link as appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Renders a **Sign out** or **Sign in** link as appropriate.
```

    - The link points to an action method on the `Account` controller in the `MicrosoftIdentity` area.

1. In *Views/Shared/_Layout.cshtml*, add the highlighted line within the `<header>` element:

    :::code language="razor" source="azure-ad-b2c/sample/Pages/Shared/_Layout.cshtml" range="11-32" highlight="10":::
 

>     This renders the *_LoginPartial.cshtml* partial view in every page request that uses this layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Adding `<partial name="_LoginPartial" />` renders the *_LoginPartial.cshtml* partial view in every page request that uses this layout.
```

Given the default is every page uses this partial, the following is simpler and won't raise the question for newbee's - what pages use the layout. 

```suggestion
    Adding `<partial name="_LoginPartial" />` renders the *_LoginPartial.cshtml* partial view in every page request.
```

1. In *Startup.cs*, make the following changes:

    1. Add the following `using` directives:
    

>         :::code language="csharp" source="azure-ad-b2c/sample/Startup.cs" range="11-13":::

Reviewer: can we use snippets? Much cleaner. When code changes, no need to recalculate.

Author: Done

        The preceding code resolves references used in the next steps.

>     1. Replace the `ConfigureServices()` method with the following code:

Reviewer: I like the shorter version better, pick one:

```suggestion
    1. Replace `ConfigureServices` with the following code:
```

```suggestion
    1. Replace the `ConfigureServices` method with the following code:
```

        
        :::code language="csharp" source="azure-ad-b2c/sample/Startup.cs" id="snippet_ConfigureServices":::

        In the preceding code:

>         - The calls to the `AddAuthentication` and `AddMicrosoftIdentityWebApp` methods configure the app to use Open ID Connect, specifically configured for the Microsoft Identity platform.
>         - The call to the `AddAuthorization` method initializes ASP.NET Core authorization.
>         - The `AddRazorPages` method call is configured such that anonymous browsers can view the Index page. All other requests require authentication.
>         - The `AddMvcOptions` and `AddMicrosoftIdentityUI` method calls add the required UI components for redirecting to/from Azure AD B2C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Calls to the `AddAuthentication` and `AddMicrosoftIdentityWebApp` methods configure the app to use Open ID Connect, specifically configured for the Microsoft Identity platform.
        - `AddAuthorization` initializes ASP.NET Core authorization.
        - The `AddRazorPages` call configures the app so anonymous browsers can view the Index page. All other requests require authentication.
        - `AddMvcOptions` and `AddMicrosoftIdentityUI` add the required UI components for redirecting to/from Azure AD B2C.
```

    
    1. Add the highlighted line to the `Configure` method:
        
        :::code language="csharp" source="azure-ad-b2c/sample/Startup.cs" id="snippet_Configure" highlight="19":::

        The preceding code enables authentication in ASP.NET Core.

## Run the app

1. Run the app.
    
    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet run
    ```

> 1. Browse to your app's secure endpoint (usually `https://localhost:5001/`).
>     - The Index page renders with no authentication challenge.
>     - The header includes a "Sign in" link because you're not authenticated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Browse to the app's secure endpoint, for example, `https://localhost:5001/`.
    - The Index page renders with no authentication challenge.
    - The header includes a **Sign in** link because you're not authenticated.
```

1. Select the **Privacy** link.

>     - You are redirected to the to your tenant's configured authentication method.
>     - After signing in, the header displays a welcome message and a "Sign out" link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The browser is redirected to the to your tenant's configured authentication method.
    - After signing in, the header displays a welcome message and a **Sign out** link.
```
